
QUESTION 1: SELECTED ANSWER A State v. Dave Solicitation: Requesting, urging, or tempting someone to commit a crime, with the intent that the solicitee commit the crime. Here, the facts state that "Dave suggested to Fred that they rob a bank." Thus, Dave urged Fred to commit a crime, with the specific intent that Fred commit the crime. Therefore, Dave can be found guilty of Solicitation. However, Solicitation merges into the completed crime. Conspiracy: Agreement by two or more persons to commit a crime, with the intent that the crime be committed. Here, "Fred agreed and said that he would go along with Dave when he tries to rob the bank." At Common Law, Conspiracy was complete upon the agreement of the co-conspirator. However, modernly, Conspiracy is a felony and requires some overt act in furtherance of the criminal objective. Here, Dave and Fred approached the bank carrying handguns. Thus, they both committed an overt act in furtherance of the criminal objective, at this point. Additionally, Dave had the specific intent to complete the criminal objective. Therefore, Dave can reasonably be charged with Conspiracy. Feigned Agreement: When only one guilty mind, there can be no Conspiracy. Here, the facts state that "Unbeknownst to Dave, Fred did not actually want to rob the bank." Thus, it would seem that there was only one guilty mind. However, as Fred intended to "explode a hand grenade in a public place," Fred had the requisite guilty mind. Pinkerton Rule: Each co-conspirator is held liable for all crimes that were in furtherance of the criminal objective, and all that were foreseeable. Here, the facts state that Dave did not know that Fred had a grenade, and that Dave was "astonished" when Fred removed the grenade from his pocket. However, the use of force by use of a deadly weapon (here, grenade) is foreseeable, as even Dave had a gun drawn. Thus, Fred's acts in relation to the grenade are foreseeable. Therefore, Dave will be guilty of crimes related to Fred's use of the grenade. Malicious Mischief: Damage or destruction of the personal property of another with malice. Here, the "explosion damaged the bank, but did not hurt anyone." Thus, there was damage to the personal property of another (bank owner). Furthermore, Malice can be shown by having the specific intent to commit the crime, or a reckless disregard of an obvious risk. Here, Fred had a specific intent to carry out the "act of terror." Thus, Dave can be reasonably charged with Malicious Mischief, through the vicarious liability imposed on him through the Pinkerton Rule. Attempted Robbery: A substantial step toward the commission of a Robbery with the intent to commit the Robbery. Here, Dave had his gun drawn, entered into the bank, and had the specific intent to commit a Robbery, as the facts state that "Dave suggested to Fred that they rob a bank." Thus, Dave and Fred came dangerously close to the commission of a Robbery. Therefore, Dave can be reasonably charged with Attempted Robbery. Robbery: Trespassory taking and carrying away of the personal property of another from the person or their presence, by use of force or threats of force, with the intent to permanently deprive. Here, as the facts do not state that Dave actually took control and dominion of any personal property from the bank, nor satisfied the element of asportation, he cannot be found guilty of Robbery. Larceny: Trespassory taking and carrying away of the personal property of another with the intent to permanently deprive or steal. Here, similarly, Dave cannot be found guilty of Larceny. Aggravated Assault: Assault with a deadly weapon. Assault is intentionally causing a reasonable apprehension of receiving an immediate battery. Here, Dave and Fred were using guns, and a grenade (deadly weapons). Additionally, they intentionally caused Gus to reasonably apprehend that he would receive an immediate battery, as there was an apparent ability to carry out the battery by use of gun or explosive. Therefore, Dave can be reasonably charged with committing an Aggravated Assault. Burglary: Trespassory breaking and entering into the dwelling house of another, in the nighttime, with the intent to commit a felony therein. Here, Fred and Dave entered into the bank, with the specific intent to rob the bank. However, a bank is not a dwelling house. Furthermore, the facts state that Fred and Dave entered the bank "The next day." Therefore, Dave cannot be charged for Common Law Burglary. Statutory Burglary: Entry into any structure with the intent to commit a crime therein. Here, Fred and Dave entered as the facts state that they "walked in the bank's front door." The bank is a structure. Finally, they had the specific intent to commit a robbery therein (a crime). Therefore, Dave can reasonably be charged with Modern Burglary, but not Common Law Burglary. Murder: A homicide with malice aforethought. Homicide: The killing of one human being by another. The defendant's act must have been the actual and proximate cause of the victim's death. Killing of One Human Being: No particular means are required. Here, Fred, a human being was killed. Actual Cause: The defendant will be the actual cause of the victim's death if they would not have died but for the defendant's act. Otherwise, if there are multiple sufficient causes, the defendant will be the actual cause of the victim's death if their actions were a Substantial factor in bringing about the victim's death. Here, Fred would not have died, but for the bank guard, Gus, shooting his gun at Fred, killing him." However, as Dave was an accomplice to the crime, he is a Substantial Factor in bringing about Fred's death, and will be found to be the actual cause. Year and a Day Rule: Under the Common Law, the victim must die within one year and one day from the date of the incident. Here, Fred died instantly. Thus, this element is satisfied. Proximate Cause: The defendant will be the indirect proximate cause of the victim's death if there was an intervening act by a third party or act of God, and the intervening act was foreseeable. Here, the bank guard, Gus, made an effort to protect persons and property of the bank. Efforts to protect persons or property are considered foreseeable. Thus, the intervening act of Gus was foreseeable. Therefore, Dave's act of burglary is the indirect Proximate cause of Fred's death. Therefore, Dave is criminally liable for the homicide of Fred. Malice: Malice can be established by one of the following: Intent to Kill: Here, the facts do not show that Dave had the specific intent to kill Fred, nor knowledge of substantial certainty that Dave's death would occur. Thus, Malice will not be shown this way. Intent to Cause Serious Bodily Injury: Here, the facts do not show that Dave had the specific intent to cause Fred any serious bodily injury, as Dave and Fred were running away together. Thus, Malice will not be shown this way. Wanton Conduct: Showing an extreme indifference to the value of human life by an act that poses a very high risk of death, has little or no social value, done intentionally, where the defendant was aware of the risk. Here, Dave's conduct of Attempted Robbery with use of a gun (deadly weapon) constituted an act that posed a very high risk of death, and which had little or no social value, which was also done intentionally, and where Dave was aware of the risk that his actions posed. Thus, Dave can be found to have committed Wanton Conduct. However, if the courts do not find that Dave's conduct amounted to Wanton Conduct, the next best theory is Involuntary Manslaughter. Felony Murder Rule: When a death is caused during the perpetration of an inherently dangerous, collateral felony, then the underlying felony will replace and satisfy the element of Malice. Here, Dave was engaged in the act of Attempted Robbery with a deadly weapon. Thus, his act was inherently dangerous, as it posed a high risk of death. Additionally, the crime of Robbery is collateral and independent to the act which actually brought about the homicide of Fred. Thus, the Attempted Robbery by Dave will replace and satisfy the element of Malice. Res Gestae: The death must occur during the perpetration of the felony, for the defendant to be found guilty. The Res Gestae begins when the attempt of the felony becomes viable and lasts until the felon(s) reach a place of temporary or seeming safety. Here, Dave was in the bank with a gun. Thus, the attempt to rob became viable. Further, the facts state that "Dave and Fred were running away with their guns drawn." Thus, they did not reach a place of temporary or seeming safety, as they were still fleeing when Fred was shot by Gus. Thus, the death occurred during the Res Gestae. Red-line View: Under the Common Law, when a co-felon dies at the hands of another, the defendant will be found guilty of Felony Murder. However, under the modern Red-line View, a defendant will not be held guilty of Felony Murder when a cofelon dies at the hands of an innocent third party. Here, Gus is an innocent third party, who actually shot and killed Fred, the co-felon. Thus, if the jurisdiction follows the Redline View, then Dave will Not be found guilty of Felony murder. However, under Common Law, Dave will be found guilty of Felony Murder. First Degree Felony Murder: When a death occurs during the perpetration of an enumerated felony. Traditionally, Burglary and Robbery are both considered enumerated felonies. Thus, if Dave is found guilty of Felony Murder (established above), he can also be reasonably found guilty of First- Degree Felony Murder. Involuntary Manslaughter: Homicide without malice while committing a wrongful act. Here, if Dave is not found guilty of Felony Murder, and his conduct is not found to amount to Wanton Conduct, then the next best theory is Involuntary Manslaughter. Dave is liable for the homicide of Fred (established above). If malice cannot be found, then Dave’s wrongful act of Assault will suffice. Therefore, Dave can be reasonably charged with Involuntary Manslaughter. Therefore, Dave can be reasonably charged with committing Solicitation, Conspiracy, Attempted Robbery, Statutory Burglary, Malicious Mischief, Aggravated Assault, Second Degree Felony Murder or First- Degree Felony Murder, or Involuntary Manslaughte